# SpUncommonFinder
<b>Finds uncommon Spanish words and outputs to them to a .csv. Also can be used to check for unique words to given list of known words that you might already be studding or know.</b>

# Requirements
- Python (at least version 3.9.6)
- NLTK library
- NLTK cess_esp corpora
- NLTK punkt
- (set_up.bat file provided for easier installation)

# Installation
1. Install Python (at least version 3.9.6).
   OR
   Activate your Python virtual environment if you have one you want to use.
2. Clone this to the folder you want to use it in. Either with git clone or downloading the .zip file and extracting.
3. Run `set_up.bat`.

# Usage
**SpUncommonFinder**
1. Put the text you want to seach in `input.txt`
2. run `python SpUncommonFinder.py`
3. `GLR_output.csv` and `GLR_details_output.csv` should be generated by default. (General Language Rarity)
   - Names configurable in `config.json`

**Unique Finder**
1. Open config.json
2. (Opt.) (Anki instructions would go here. It's currently hard-coded for just my set up)
3. in `unique_finder` -> `input_names_w_ext` enter the any filenames WITH EXTENSION that will be your "word bank"
   - Put 1 only word per line
4. in `unique_finder` -> `check_filename_w_ext` enter the filename WITH EXTENSION of the words you would like to check
   - Put 1 only word per line
5. run `python unique_finder.py`
6. `PU_output.csv` should be generated by default. (PU == personally unique)
   - Names configurable in `config.json`

# Idea
New words are always what slows you down the most when trying to read a language that you are learning.

So, I wrote this program in order to find words I likey don't know before reading something, by searching a text for the rarest words according to a Spanish word frequency list generated from a corpora of text.

I use this in conjunction with 
- [AutoAnkiData](https://github.com/RRomreoJr/AutoAnkiData), a project I made to more quickly gather data for new flashcards
- [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) (an SRS flashcard program) to filter out any words I'm already studying
